---
layout: post
title:  "Week 12: Roaring Motors, High Current Loads"
date:   2014-05-05 12:40:46
categories:
---

### Transistors
Transistors act as a middleman between microcontrollers like the Arduino and stuff that require higher current and voltage like motors.

#### Connections:
1. Base - microcontroller's output
2. Collector - high-current load - power source
3. Emitter - ground

Also, make sure to add a diode in parallel with collector and emitter of transistor directed away from ground in order to protect the transistor from back voltage. Back voltage occurs when the motor shuts down, yet still spinning due to inertia, and when the motor is turned in the reverse direction. In short, transistors are like gatekeepers and bodyguards to the microcontroller that keep it from frying!

<iframe src="//player.vimeo.com/video/95399337" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe> <p><a href="http://vimeo.com/95399337">Pokedex V1 Serial Monitor</a> from <a href="http://vimeo.com/user4315024">Harrison Tan</a> on <a href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p> <p>An interactive Pokedex that reports back the name of the Pokemon scanned in the Serial Monitor. In more detail, the Processing sketch that runs on any device supporting Java monitors the device&#039;s camera, which is triggered by a scanning red laser and subsequently sends a HTTP Get request to a server running a basic Ruby On Rails webapp marking the device as flagged. Then, the Arduino sketch routinely pings the server to check for flagged devices and reports it in the Serial Monitor. The simple protocol used was a * to mark the beginning of a device&#039;s name and ^ to mark the end. See the Pokedex V2 LCD Display for reporting the name on the Arduino-driven LCD screen.</p>